---
title: 'Mixpanel'
date: 2019-05-19 00:00:00
excerpt: Mixpanel + Unity = Love
published: false
---

As a game developer one of the hardest things is getting solid, reliable, data driven feedback on your game.  Showing your game to someone is easy and those people are often more than happy to give you their 110% honest feedback.

What's hard is getting in-game data driven feedback for ALL the random people that play your game when you post it online.  You never know who is playing, when they are playing, where in game they are, why they stopped playing, etc unless they take time out of their day to inform you of all of that and who wants to do that?!

That's where analytics come into play.  The game client can send any data you choose to an external analytics platform so the problem is converted from a user reporting problem to a solution where the game developer makes sure their game sends the "right" kind of data to help make decisions and garner insights which is much better for everyone!

There are a lot of analytics platforms out there for you to choose from and each has their benefits, but when starting out Red Owl Games I had had some experience with a platform that I knew did the job and was robust enough for the usecases I had in mind.  But I didn't know if it worked well with Unity, so it was time to investigate. [Picture of Mixpanel]

So I dug in to [mixpanel-unity](https://github.com/mixpanel/mixpanel-unity) and to my surprise the API was great.  I've worked with alot of frameworks and libraries in my time as a programmer and it's often really hit or miss if it stays up to date, works as documented, and there are not any show stopping bugs.  With mixpanel-unity it seemed to pass the litmus test with flying colors.  I set up a Mixpanel account, set up my Unity project, opened the example scene and BOOM! It all just worked.  I was floored.  I thought now I just need to figure out what kind of metrics I need to emit to make the proper decisions (this will likely be a future blog post).

Once I got everything set up and ready to be tested out in a compiled game, I built the Unity project for WebGL and BOOM.  The world fell apart and Unity was bleeding with massive amounts of red error warnings.  The mixpanel-unity library was not written in a way that was compatible with all of the platforms Unity can compile to.  So I was left with 2 options.  Move forward and look for a different analytics platform that works well with Unity and never look back OR dig into why the mixpanel-unity library didn't work for WebGL by figuring out how hard it would be to fix and contribute back so others don't fall prey to this.

So I did what any other game playing software engineer who hates being beaten down by their code overlord would do and pulled out my digital sword and shield to delve into the mixpanel-unity dungeon ready to chop down monsters, swig a health potion or two and come out a more experienced programmer with a shiny new weapon I can use in all of our future Unity projects for analytics. [Picture of Dragon Warrior]

The biggest hurdle in my adventure was trying to understand why the original library was written the way it was and why I shouldn't just rewrite the entire thing from the ground up.  After some deep dive sessions into the codebase I came to the conclusion that it was written as a c native extension because the original developer didn't know how else to implement the features they needed and to their credit it was serveral years ago and Unity and C# have come a long way since then (especially Unity upgrading to a .Net 4.x equivalent).

So I cranked up my music and hammered some code out over the course of a long weekend and a few late nights after work. The end result was this - https://github.com/rocktavious/mixpanel-unity - a completely rewritten version of the library using just C# so Unity can properly compile it to any platform it supports.

After some initial testing in [2>1](/project/2gt1) I began to reachout to the community of users using the mixpanel-unity library but submitting issues to the github repository. I urged them to try out my rewritten library to see if it would solve their problems.  This was an effort to build a case to Mixpanel for accepting my rewrite as the gold standard for the future of the library.

Within a few weeks and a few helpful testers to validate my code works in their projects too, Mixpanel had caught wind of what I was doing and they reached out to me.  Long story short I am working out a deal with Mixpanel to support the library long term and they even sent me some sweet swag as a Thank you.

[Picture of me in Swag!]

If you are doing game development and want to get better analytics out of your game client I highly suggest your try out Mixpanel and the Unity library I helped (re)write.  I promise you won't be dissapointed with the results!
