---
title: 'Nice to See Ya Ludum Dare 46!'
date: 2020-04-21 00:00:00
excerpt: 1 Pandemic + 2 Kids + 72 Hours = Best game yet!
published: false
---

---
title: 'Nice to See Ya Ludum Dare 45!'
date: 2019-10-08 00:00:00
excerpt: Success while taking care of 2 kids under 3 in 72 hours!
published: true
---

Friday April 17th @ 8PM CDT to Monday April 20th, 2020 @ 8PM CDT

**Theme:** Don't Let It Die

**Outcome:** Amazing.  

**Summary:** This might be the best game we've made to date!  

## Friday

The final voting round was a little lackluster.  I think we're both a little resigned to the theme not being something we're really excited about.

The theme is announced while we're building Lego "digger town" with our two kids.  "Don't Let It Die"?  Really?  Isn't that basically all video games?  LD45 was "Start With Nothing" which is how most games start and "Don't Let it Die" is basically the goal of all games.  Ok, period of complaining done.  It's time to move to acceptance and brainstorm an actual idea.

I feel like @rocktavious and I have a tradition to get into 3-4 fights the Friday night of jams.  The theme of them all tends to be "you're not listening" and it 100% goes both ways.  

A Few Ideas

|Game Idea|Thoughts|
|---|---|
|Some kind of any colony game|Too big|
|Keep the torch burning|Had trouble coming up with and agreeing on an actual game for it and how to make it coop|
|Puzzle game where one person has a top view and the other has a side view of the same puzzle|This didn't have anything to do with the theme|

We were getting no where.  And it was time for the kids to go to bed.  So we put them down and then @rocktavious and I headed downstairs for some "late night" (9pm) dessert.  Over dessert we deciced to combine carrying a torch with the puzzle game with two different views.

The game concept was a single character 3d cube puzzle game.  The character, a literal flame, would traverse a 3d maze by floating around.  One player could see the maze from the top, and control the character's movement in the X and Y planes while the other player controls the character in the X and Z planes.  Only one player can control the character at a time so the players must communicate what they see and who needs to be moving while traversing the maze.  If we had time, we could also add in some extra mechanics like water, ice and portals.

Exciting.  We both liked the idea!  Of course @rocktavious can't wait to get started and goes to do a little prototyping to make sure the game is possible.  Meanwhile, while brushing my teeth, I realized we can make this a data driven game (that is afterall, our goal).  We can use Google Sheets (and @rocktavious' newly built tool to auto load Google Sheets!) to design levels and have them auto generate in Unity.  This will help prevent fights since I generally do the level designs but @rocktavious can't stand how... imprecise I am placing pretty much any art in a scene.  Win!

Now for bed. 

## Saturday

@rocktavious wakes up at 4:30am, excited to get to work.  By the time I get up at 7:00am, he's pretty much fully built the system to generate levels with Google Sheets.  I go ahead and create a ew quick levels and a short tutorial on how to set up and use to tool from @rocktavious.

We took a break for breakfast and talked about our plans and made tasks.  I spent most of the day composing music and creating sound effects.  @Rocktavious spent the day getting most of the simple game mechanics and art in place.  By the end of the day, we had a flame character with particle effects, player inputs and single level loading.  We basically had a simple, playable game!  This is probably the furthest we had ever gotten.

Successful end to the first full day for sure!

## Sunday

So, honestly, today parenting took a backseat and we let teh kids watch tv most of the morning.  Really, just our older one watched tv while our younger daughter piddle around playing by herself.  Hey, I'd call a 19 month old happily playing by herself a parenting win so we deserved a day off!

So while the kids played and watched tv, we buckled down and got to work.

@rocktavious got the music hooked with with FMOD so that we passed in parameters to switch tracks.  He also spent a decent amount of time getting the menu, level selection and automatic level switching working.

I worked a lot on level design.  It was made so easy by the tool @rocktavious built.  I've mentioned it a few times, so I'll explain it in a bit more detail now.  Afterall, it is what allowed us to create a whopping 13 levels for Flare.  Basically @rocktavious hooked up the API for Google Sheets so that in the Unity Project settings we can just enter in the sheet id (after granting proper permissions in the sheet, of course) and generate an asset at the click of a button.  That means, once I had the initial sheet set up, I could fiddle with the data, go into Unity and hit "Refresh" and I could see the level built right there.  That's it!  No placing anything.  Pretty amazing and incredibly useful.  So armed with that tool, I was able to create 13 levels with water hazards, transparent blocks and portals.

<insert screen shots of data/maybe video of process?>

I think what really gave us the biggest boost was that both of our kids actually took 3 hours naps.  Our oldest has mostly dropped napping but every few days we do get a good nap in and we luckily got one this day.

During nap, I tried to build the project (after learning some lessons during LD45) and the WebGL build did not run the game but the Mac build worked.  I looked into it a bit, then created a task in notion for @roctavious to take a look.  But we decided it was low priority since the desktop builds worked as expected.  @rocktavious also got the water hazard and the transparent block working.

So by the end of Sunday we had a playable, albeit buggy, game.  Monday would be all about polish.  Seemed like a great position to be in!

## Monday

@rocktavious was too tired to wake up at 4:30am for the third day in a row (can you blame him?) so the whole house got up at 7:30am instead.  The kids needed more attention today so we had more trading off as we tried to finish and polish the game.  Several times we went back and reviewed what was left to make sure we were each working on the most important tasks.

I spent the majority of the day with level setup, playthrough, and tweaking.  All the levels were built but they all needed playthrough, timers set and adjustments made.  Again, out Google Sheets tool made this very streamlined.

As time, and kids, allowed, @rocktavious fixed a lot of bugs here and there.  He also added pause/restart functionality

While @rocktavious mowed the front lawn with both of our kids, I finished up music by adding a layer for the last 25% of the time to let the player know it was urgent to complete the level before time ran out.

The last thing that got added was a controls menu and then we submitted our entry to Ludum Dare 46!

## Postmortem

One of the best things about postmortems is to reflect on the whole process of making a game from idea to shipping it and figure out what you'd like to do better next time.  You should also acknowledge the things that happened this time and the challenges you overcame.

We made a complete game in a quarantine while taking care of 2 walking/running/talking kids under 4 in 72 hours... and we think its pretty good too! That's a huge achievement!

Some things that could have gone better:
- We really need to figure out how to have a less disjointed UI and scene management system.
- Seriously.  WebGL shouldn't be this hard.